Feature/bounds check label (#267)
MicroEJ/docs: ApplicationDeveloperGuide/UI/MWT/how-bounds-check-widget.rst

String Bounds Check on a Widget
===============================
The Issue
-------------

When creating an application, it may support multiple languages, some of those languages have words and phrases that may be bigger than first planned when creating an application

Extending a Widget
-------------------

> To add a check on the size of the messages, the widgets drawing a String need to be extended or modified.
> In this tutorial, the `Label` class will be extended by `MyLabel`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The objective is to check if the text to display fits in the content bounds of a widget. A straightforward way to test this is to extend or modify the widget.
In this article, the type `MyLabel` will be extend the type `Label` from the Widget library which displays a text.
```

.. code-block:: java

    public class MyLabel extends Label {

>         public MyLabel(String txt) {

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        public MyLabel(String text) {
```

>             super(txt);

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            super(text);
```

        }

>         @Override
>         protected void onLaidOut() {
> 
>         }
>     }

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        @Override
        protected void onLaidOut() {
            super.onLaidOut();
        }
    }
```

Overriding onLaidOut
--------------------
 

> As soon as a widget is laid out (its position and size set) by its parent, its `onLaidOut()` method is called.
> So, overriding this method is the best place to check whether or not the text fits.
> 
> Inside of the method, get the Font from the Style that the widget is using, and then, get the Font 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As soon as a widget is laid out, its position and size are set and its `onLaidOut()` method is called.
Overriding this method is the best place to check whether the text fits or not.

In the method body, get the `Font` from the `Style` of the widget, and compare the text width to the content width.
```

.. code-block:: java

    @Override
    protected void onLaidOut() {

>         final Font font = getStyle().getFont();

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        super.onLaidOut();
        final Font font = getStyle().getFont();
```

        final String text = getText();
        final int stringWidth = font.stringWidth(text);
        final int contentWidth = getContentBounds().getWidth();
        if (stringWidth > contentWidth) {

>             System.err.println("The text size is greater than the widget content width!");

Reviewer: Print the text and the widget hierarchy path so that the debug is easier

Author: Like an exception

Reviewer 2: With a print. Something like: `The text of Desktop > Dock > List > Label "Test" is larger than the widget content width.` for example.

Reviewer: @VictorMisael our suggestion is the nice to have, it will help the developper identifying wich widget has text overflow. But if you want we can postpone this request to another time, but at least please print the text that overflows in your System.err.println(...)

Author: Hello @thomasponsmicroej , There's a code that shows that on the Improving Bounds Check Section

https://github.com/MicroEJ/docs/blob/3d5fb180054c13cb0fcd2fffa59903cd14741504/ApplicationDeveloperGuide/UI/MWT/how-bounds-check-widget.rst#L74-L91

Reviewer: resolving this comment (done in commit c9aadc8175354821c3c6137c1267e63d10ce8822)

        }

>     }

Reviewer: Add some comments to explain what it does, the reader might not know all the APIs

Author: Sure

> Testing with a Canvas

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Testing
```

----------------------

> The check can be easily validated by putting the widget in a canvas and setting its bounds manually (a little shorter than the text size).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The check can be easily validated by putting the widget in a canvas and setting its bounds manually (a little shorter than the text width).
```

  
.. code-block:: java

    public static void main(String[] args) {
        MicroUI.start();
        Desktop desktop = new Desktop();
        Canvas canvas = new Canvas();
        canvas.addChild(new MyLabel("Test"), 15, 0, 15, 10);
        desktop.setWidget(canvas);
        desktop.requestShow();
    }

.. image:: images/tuto_microej_bounds_check.png

The console should show this:

.. code-block:: console

    The text size is greater than the widget content width!

> Improving the Bounds Check

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Improving the bounds check
```

----------------------------

To make the correction process easier, it's possible to indicate where the text is truncated.

.. code-block:: java

    @Override
    protected void onLaidOut() {
        final Font font = getStyle().getFont();
        final String text = getText();
        final int stringWidth = font.stringWidth(text);
        final int labelWidth = this.getContentBounds().getWidth();
        if (stringWidth > labelWidth) {
            for (int i = text.length() - 1; i >= 0; i--) {
                if (font.substringWidth(text, 0, i) <= labelWidth) {
                    System.out.println(text + "\" truncates after \"" + text.substring(0, i) + "\""); //$NON-NLS-1$ //$NON-NLS-2$
                    break;
                }

            }
        }
    }

> This block of code can be also extracted to a helper class in order to be used in several Widgets.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This block of code may also be extracted to a helper class in order to be used in other Widgets.
```

.. code-block:: java

    public class LabelBoundsCheck {

>     static void fits(final Font font, final String text, final int contentWidth) {

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    public static void fits(final Font font, final String text, final int contentWidth) {
```
- make it `public` if the intent is to make it widely available.
- the intent of this method is to check and print the issue. The naming `fits` suggest you are returning a `boolean`. Either return a `boolean` or rename the method to best describe what it does.

            int stringWidth = font.stringWidth(text);
            if (stringWidth > contentWidth) {
                for (int i = text.length() - 1; i >= 0; i--) {
                    if (font.substringWidth(text, 0, i) <= contentWidth) {
                        System.out.println(text + "\" truncates after \"" + text.substring(0, i) + "\""); //$NON-NLS-1$ //$NON-NLS-2$
                        break;
                   }
                }
            }
        
    }
    
    }

> 

Reviewer: Could you add a snippet where you show how you use the `fits` method in your widget?

You could also use the BON constants like
```
if (Constants.getBoolean("com.mycompany.checkTextOverflow")) {
       fits();
}
```
to show that the code can be executed or not with an option.

Author: I think this could be adding in another article complemeting this one

Reviewer 2: @thomasponsmicroej I prefer the check inside the `fits()` method to be sure that all the callers will have the benefit of this check. (All the calls to `fits()` should be removed by the SOAR once the method is detected as empty.)

Reviewer: if you are talking about wrapping the code in the `if (Constants.getBoolean("com.mycompany.checkTextOverflow"))` block, we already have places in the doc about that, this is why I suggest that you use it in the article. Still, it is a nice to have so it could be postponed.
examples of the usage of BON Constants in the doc:
https://docs.microej.com/en/latest/Tutorials/tutorialInstrumentJavaCodeForLogging.html#remove-logging-related-code
https://docs.microej.com/en/latest/ApplicationDeveloperGuide/classpath.html?highlight=constants#constants
https://docs.microej.com/en/latest/Tutorials/tutorialOptimizeMemoryFootprint.html?highlight=constants#application-code

Author: Ok, I will be adding this

Extending the Widget
-------------------
The goal is to check if the text to display fits in the content bounds of a widget. A straightforward way to test this is to extend or modify the widget.
In this article, the type `MyLabel` will extend the type `Label` from the Widget library which displays a text.

.. code-block:: java

    public class MyLabel extends Label {

        public MyLabel(String text) {
            super(text);
        }

        @Override
        protected void onLaidOut() {
            super.onLaidOut();
        }
    }

Overriding the onLaidOut() method
--------------------
 
As soon as a widget is laid out, its position and size are set and its `onLaidOut()` method is called.
Overriding this method is the best place to check whether the text fits or not.

In the method body, get the `Font` from the `Style` of the widget, and compare the text width to the content width.

.. code-block:: java

    @Override
    protected void onLaidOut() {
        super.onLaidOut();
        final Font font = getStyle().getFont();
        final String text = getText();

>         //This method gets the string width by the size of each character and fonts

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        // get the width of the text with the specified font
```

        final int stringWidth = font.stringWidth(text);

>         //Gets the bounds of the Widget

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        // get the available width for the content in the widget (excluding outlines)
```

                    System.out.printErr(text + "\" truncates after \"" + text.substring(0, i) + "\""); //$NON-NLS-1$ //$NON-NLS-2$
                    break;
                }

            }
        }
    }

This block of code may also be extracted to a helper class in order to be used in other Widgets.

.. code-block:: java

    public class LabelBoundsCheck {

    public static boolean fits(final Font font, final String text, final int contentWidth) {
            int stringWidth = font.stringWidth(text);
            if (stringWidth > contentWidth) {
                for (int i = text.length() - 1; i >= 0; i--) {
                    if (font.substringWidth(text, 0, i) <= contentWidth) {
                        System.out.printErr(text + "\" truncates after \"" + text.substring(0, i) + "\""); //$NON-NLS-1$ //$NON-NLS-2$
                        return false;
                   }
                }
            }
        return true;
    }
    
    }

Using BON Constant
----------------------------

To avoid verbosity on the console, it's possible to use BON constants to show the error at developer will

.. code-block:: java

>     if (Constants.getBoolean("com.mycompany.checkTextOverflow")) {

Reviewer 2: I would have preferred this check in the static method to avoid having it for each caller (with the risk of forgetting one, and a code that is less readable).

Reviewer: as requested, Constant check moved to the static method. @seonmej can we resolve this one?
